---
title: 'Mass Effect 3 and Guild Wars 2'
date: 2012-12-26T02:07:00
draft: false
tags: ["games"]
---

### Mass Effect 3

I played a little more of Mass Effect 3, and I am still impressed with it. I just finished playing a quest where one of my favorite characters in the previous game is killed off. That was a little disappointing. The mission had me make some tough decisions.

I enjoy the gameplay in Mass Effect 3 so much, that it makes me put up with some very awkward controls. I am not a fan of the way the cover system works. There are several times when I wanted to run, and I took cover instead, and times when I vaulted over cover when I wanted to just stay behind cover. Any other game would have probably annoyed my to a point where I would just give up playing. I hate putting up with console controls on PC. Mass Effect is an exception.

I realized that the dream sequences in the game remind me of Max Payne quite a bit.

### Guild Wars 2

Having played single player games for the longest time, I seriously got into multiplayer games with TF2, followed by Battlefield 3.

A couple of days ago, my wife convinced me to buy Guild Wars 2. I have never played a MMO before, and I was not very enthusiastic about it. I didn't see myself playing an RPG for months, so I didn't want to waste money on it.

The wife however, insisted, and I bought it.

I must say, I am glad I took her word. I think I am going to enjoy Guild Wars 2 quite a bit. The game looks amazing.

<p>
{{< youtube Do4DFN-1Bvc >}}
</p>

I am playing as a human guardian, and the starting world looks like a fairy tale. This kind of reminds of Trine in 3D.

I was told that most other MMOs do not encourage exploration. I don't know if this is true, and it seems kind of counter intuitive to me. The designers obviously spent a lot of time creating the world, and I would imagine they would want players to explore it.

Apparently, that is not the case. Guild Wars 2, from what little I have seen has a number of perks for those who want to wander off into the world. I am glad it does that. I wouldn't want to play a game that would punish me for wanting to the world.

{{<
    figure
    src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-24-21-23-36-27.jpg"
    align="center"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    link="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-24-21-23-36-27.jpg"
>}}

{{<
    figure
    src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-24-21-32-10-26.jpg"
    align="center"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    link="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-24-21-32-10-26.jpg"
>}}

{{<
    figure
    src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-25-12-25-51-53.jpg"
    align="center"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    link="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/rch-git/staticcontent@master/images/masseffect3andguildwars2/Gw2-2012-12-25-12-25-51-53.jpg"
>}}

There is so much about MMOs I need to learn, but I think Guild Wars 2 might be a good idea to begin. I am glad I don't have to deal with subscription fees. I can play this at my own pace. Considering I have so many games in my backlog, I really wouldn't want to deal with a subscription.

I will play some more Guild Wars 2. Considering it is 19F outside, and snowing a little bit, I am not stepping out of home anytime soon. I am blissfully enjoying my Christmas break playing some new games.
