---
title: 'Battlefield Moment With Nvidia ShadowPlay'
date: 2013-11-25T22:00:00
draft: false
tags: ["battlefield", "games"]
---
For those that are not familiar, ShabowPlay is a program that is bundled with GeForce experience - the download for this is available on the Nvidia website. This program is compatible with Nvidia GeForce 6 and 7 series desktop video cards.

Depending on the specified settings, the program automatically saves the specified time of gameplay in a temporary location, and the user can hit a key combination to save the video to the hard drive. I do not see any loss in performance when this software is running in the background. I am using an EVGA GeForce GTX 780 ACX.

{{<
    figure
    src="https://pub-547199c383d84d3aaec67970e5758c08.r2.dev/battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay/01-battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay-geforce-experience.jpg"
    align="center"
    caption="Nvidia ShadowPlay"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
>}}

For someone like me, who does not continuously record gameplay, but would like to keep a video archive of gameplay moments (Battlefield moments in particular), this program is a blessing. I will now be using DxTory & VirtualDub when I want to record a full round instead.

{{<
    figure
    src="https://pub-547199c383d84d3aaec67970e5758c08.r2.dev/battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay/02-battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay-windows-movie-maker.jpg"
    align="center"
    caption="Windows Movie Maker"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener"
    link="https://pub-547199c383d84d3aaec67970e5758c08.r2.dev/battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay/02-battlefieldmomentwithshadowplay-windows-movie-maker.jpg"
>}}

I use Windows Movie Maker to edit the MP4 files generated by ShadowPlay. I typically need less than a minute of gameplay archived, so editing hardly takes any time, because it usually only involves cutting out segments.

Windows Movie Maker is ideal for editing clips from ShadowPlay
I was briefly contemplating switching over to ATI for my next upgrade (whenever that happens), but at the moment, they don't have something equivalent to offer, and its a deal breaker for me. ShadowPlay ensures that no Battlefield moment will ever go unrecorded.

Its also especially helpful when trying to capture bugs for Battlefield 4. Here are some clips I recorded using ShadowPlay:

<p>
{{< youtube pqneKZTy-zs >}}
</p>

<p>
{{< youtube EWIT8tyszjA >}}
</p>

<p>
{{< youtube RxcHc8YGSSo >}}
</p>

_This post is published on Apr 20, 2026 Monday 09:14:02 PM CDT_
